"We're going to skate to one song, one song only"
Ball so hard mothafuckers wanna fine me

So I ball so hard mothafuckers wanna fine me
But first niggas gotta find me
What's fifty grand to a mothafucker like me?
Can you please remind me?
(Ball so hard) This shit crazy
Y'all don't know that don't shit faze me
The Nets could go 0 for 82
And I'd look at you like this shit gravy
(Ball so hard) This shit weird
We ain't even 'posed to be here
(Ball so hard) Since we here
It's only right that we'd be fair
Psycho: I'm liable to go Michael, take your pick
Jackson, Tyson, Jordan, Game 6
(Ball so hard) Got a broken clock
Rollies that don't tick-tock
Audemars that's losing time
Hidden behind all these big rocks
(B-ball so hard) I'm shocked too
I'm supposed to be locked up too
If you escaped what I've escaped
You'd be in Paris getting fucked up too
(B-ball so hard) Let's get faded
Le Meurice for like six days
Gold bottles, scold models
Spillin' Ace on my sick J's
(Ball so hard) Bitch, behave
Just might let you meet 'Ye
Chi-Town's D. Rose
I'm moving the Nets to BK

Ball so hard mothafuckers wanna fine me
That shit cray, that shit cray, that shit cray
B-ball so hard mothafuckers wanna fine me
That shit cray, that shit cray, that shit cray

She said, "'Ye, can we get married at the mall?"
I said, "Look, you need to crawl 'fore you ball
Come and meet me in the bathroom stall
And show me why you deserve to have it all"
(Ball so hard) That shit cray, ain't it, Jay?
(B-ball so hard) What she order, fish fillet?
(B-ball so hard) "Your whip so cold" – this old thing?
(Ball so hard) Act like you'll ever be around mothafuckers like this again
Bougie girl, grab my hand
Fuck that bitch; she don't wanna dance
Excuse my French, but I'm in France, ahah, I'm just sayin'
Prince Williams ain't do it right if you ask me
'Cause I was him I would have married Kate and Ashley
What's Gucci, my nigga?
What's Louis, my killer?
What's drugs, my dealer?
What's that jacket, Margiela?
Doctors say I'm the illest
'Cause I'm suffering from realness
Got my niggas in Paris
And they going gorillas, huh

"I don't even know what that means
No one knows what it means, but it's provocative
No, it's not, it's gross
Gets the people going"

Ball so hard mothafuckers wanna fine me
B-ball so hard mothafuckers wanna fine me

You are now watching the throne
Don't let me get in my zone
Don't let me get in my zone
Don't let me get in my zone
These other niggas is lyin'
Actin' like the summer ain't mine
(I got that hot bitch in my home)
(You know how many hot bitches I own?)
Don't let me get in my zone
Don't let me get in my zone
Don't let me get in my zone
Don't let me get in my zone
The stars is in the building
They hands is to the ceiling
I know I'm 'bout to kill it
How you know? I got that feeling
You are now watching the throne
Don't let me into my zone
Don't let me into my zone
(I'm definitely in my zone, zone, zone, zone, zone...)