Mr. Boombastic!
What you want is a boombastic, romantic, fantastic lova'
Shaggy
Mr. Lover Lover, ummm
I'm Mr. Lover Lover, haha girl
Mr. Lover Lover
Mmmm, I'm Mr. Lover Lover

She call me Mr. Boombastic
Say me fantastic, touch me on the back
She says I'm Mr. Ro... Mantic
Call me fantastic, touch me on the back
She says I'm ro...

Smooth, just like silk
Soft and cuddly, hug me up like a quilt
I'm a lyrical lover, no take me for no filth
With my sexual physique, Jah know me well-built
Oh me, oh my; well, well, can't you tell
I'm just like a turtle crawling out of my shell?
Gal you captivate my body, put me under a spell
With your Khus Khus perfume, I love your sweet smell
You are the only young girl who can ring my bell
And I can take rejection, so you tell me "Go to Hell"

I'm Boombastic, call me fantastic
Touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. Ro... Mantic
Call me fantastic, she touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. Boom-boom-boom-boom-Boombastic
Tell me fantastic, touch me on my back
She calls me Mr. Ro... Mantic
Tell me fantastic, she touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. boom-boom-Boom

Gee wheeze, baby, please
Let me take you to an island of the sweet cool breeze
You don't feel like drive, well, baby, hand me the keys
And I'll take you to a place and set your mind at ease
Don't you tickle my foot bottom (ha ha), baby, please
Don't you play with my nose, 'cause I might ha chum sneeze
Well you a the bun and me a the cheese
And if me a the rice, well, you a the peas

I'm Boombastic, really fantastic
Touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. Ro... Mantic
Really fantastic, touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. boom-boom-boom-Boombastic
Tell me fantastic, touch me in my back
She says I'm Mr. Ro...Mantic
Tell me fantastic, she touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. boom-Boom

At least give me your loving, gal, your loving well good
I want your loving, gal, give it like you should
Give me your loving, girl, your loving well good
I want your loving, gal, you remember the woo?
Would you like to kiss and carress
Rub down every strand of hair on my chest?
I'm Boombastic, rated as the best
The best you should get - nothing more, nothing less
Give me your digits, jot down your address
I'll bet you confess when you put me to the test
That I'm

Boombastic, really fantastic
Touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. Ro... Mantic
Call me fantastic, touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. Boom... Bastic
Call me fantastic, touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. Ro... Mantic
Call me fantastic, she touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. Boombastic

Gal your admiration if a tick me from the start
With your physical attraction, gal, you know to feel the spark
A man of few words, naw go tell you no sweet talk
Naw go laba laba laba and a chat pure phart
I'll get straight to the point, like a arrow or a dart
Come lay down in my jacuzzi and get some bubble bath
Only sound you will hear is the beating of my heart
And we will mmm-mmm, and have some sweet pillow talk
I'm

Boombastic, really fantastic
Touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. Ro... Mantic
Call me fantastic, she tickle on my back
She says I'm Mr. Boom-boom... Bastic
Call me fantastic, touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. Ro... Mantic
Call me fantastic, she touch me on my back
She says I'm Mr. Boom
What ya say, girl?
Smooth