Round and round (aw yeah)
Round and round, round we go (I get around)
Round and round
Still clown with the Underground, when we come around
Round and round, round we go (stronger than ever)
Round and round

Back to get wrecked, all respect
To those who break their neck to keep their hoes in check
‘Cause, oh, they sweat a brother majorly
And I don't know why your girl keeps pagin' me
She tell me that she needs me, cries when she leaves me
And every time she sees me, she squeeze me—lady, take it easy!
Hate to sound sleazy, but tease me
I don't want it if it's that easy
Ayo, bust it, baby got a problem saying "bye-bye"
Just another hazard of a fly guy
You ask "Why?", don't matter, my pockets got fatter
Now everybody's lookin' for the latter
And ain't no need in being greedy, if you wanna see me
Dial the beeper number, baby, when you need me
And I'll be there in a jiffy
Don't be picky, just be happy with this quickie
When will ya learn you can't tie me down
Baby doll, check it out: I get around

What you mean you don't know?
Round and round, around we go
I get around, the Underground just don't stop for hoes
Round and round
I get around, still down with the Underground
Round and round, around we go
I get around, yeah, ayo Shock, let them hoes know
Round and round

Now you can tell from my everday fits I ain't rich
So cease and desist with them tricks (tricks)
I'm just another black man caught up in the mix (mix)
Tryna make a dollar out of 15 cents (a dime and a nickel)
Just cause I'm a freak don't mean that we could hit the sheets
Baby, I can see, that you don't recognize me
I'm Shock G, the one who put the satin on your panties
Never knew a hooker that could share me; I get around

What's up, love? How you doin'? (all right)
Well, I've been hangin', sangin' tryna do my thang, oh, you heard that I was bangin'
Your homegirl you went to school with? That's cool
But did she tell you about her sister and your cousin? Thought I wasn't (uhh)
See, weekends were made for Michelob
But it's a Monday, my day, so just let me hit it, yo
And don't mistake my statement for a clown
We can keep in the down low long as you know that I get around

Round and round, around we go
2Pacalypse Now don't stop for hoes, I get around
Round and round
Round and round, around we go
Why I ain't call you? Hahahah, please!
Round and round

Finger tips on the hips as I dip
Gotta get a tight grip, don't slip; loose lips sink ships
It's a trip, I love the way she licks her lips, see me jockin'
Put a little twist in her hips ‘cause I'm watchin'
Conversations on the phone 'til the break of dawn
Now we're all alone, why the lights on?
Turn them off! Time to set it off, get you wet and soft
Somethin' is on your mind, let it off
You don't know me, you just met me, you won't let me
Well, if I couldn't have it (silly rabbit) why you sweatin' me?
It's a lot of real G's doin' time
Cause a groupie bent the truth and told a lie
You picked the wrong guy, baby, if you're too fly
You need to hit the door, search for a new guy
'Cause I only got one night in town
Break out or be clowned, baby doll are you down?
I get around

Round and round, around we go
Round and round, around we go, uhh
Round and round, around we go
Round and round, around we go
Round and round, round we go
Round and round, round we go
Round and round, round we go, whoa
Round and round we go
Round and round
Round and round
Round and round
Round and round