Usher... Kel's...

Yo, Ush
What up, Kells?
Wanna introduce you to this girl, think I really love this girl
Yeah?
Man, she's so fine
Straight up, dawg
She stands about 5'4", Coca Cola, red bone
Damn
She drives a black Durango
License plate say Angel (What?)
Tattoo on her ankle
Plus, she's making pesos
Got a crib on Peachtree (Peachtree?)
Right on 17 street
And I call her TeTe
Wait a minute, hold on, dawg
Do she got a kid? (Yep)
She love some waffle house? (Yep)
Do she got a beauty mark on the left side of her mouth? (Man..)
Went to Georgia Tech? (Yup) Works for TBS? (Yup)
Man, I can't believe this shit, damn
Tell me what's wrong dawg, what the hell you damning 'bout?
I'm your homie so just say what's on your mind
Man, I didn't know that you were talking 'bout her
So man you telling me you know her?
Do I know her? Like a pastor know his word

We messing with the same girl, the same girl
How could the love of my life
And my potential wife be the
The same girl, same girl
Man I can't believe that
We've been messing with the
The same girl, the same girl
Thought she was someone I could trust
But she's been doubling up with us
U, K, man we been messing with the same girl

See I met her at this party in Atlanta (OHH!)
Well I met her at this party in Chicago (OHH!)
She came right up to me, giving me conversation
I said "Do you got a man?"
She said "No" with no hesitation
Well, it must be a music thing
'Cause she said the same to me
At a party all in my face
While I'm laughing and buying her drinks
She whispered in my ear, said "Can you take me home?"
Me too, man, she was in the Chi singing that same song
Is that true?
And I thought it was true confessions when she said "I love you"
Man I thought her body was calling when she said "I want you"
Look, I even got some pictures on my phone
Looky there, there she is with some boy shorts on, hah

We messing with the same girl, the same girl
She's the apple of my eye
And my potential wife
The same girl, same girl
Man I just can't believe that we've been messing around with the same damn girl, oh yeah
The same girl, same girl
Thought she was someone I could trust
But she's been doubling up with the both of us
U (Ay!), K (Ay!), man we been messing with the same girl

Said she got me on a ring tone
Are you talking 'bout the pink phone?
Mmm mmm, the blue one
Man, she told me that was turned off
It's obvious that she's been playing us, playing us
Ush, constantly she's been lying to us, lying to us
Don't like the way that she's been going 'bout, going 'bout
Kells, what you think that we should do about it, do about it?
Call her up at her home
She won't know I'm on the phone
Yeah, man, that's the lick
Homie, we about to bust this trick
Man, just ask her to meet up with you and I'm going to show up too
And she won't know what to do
We'll be standing there singing...

The same girl, same girl
She was the apple of my eye (Blow!)
And your potential wife
The same girl, same girl
I just can't believe that we've been messing with the same girl
The same girl, the same girl
She gon' be looking so stupid when she see us together
U, K, man we been messing with same girl
See, she was taking flights, going back and forth
The same girl, the same girl
I would pick her up, ay, at the airport
Man, I really can't believe
The same girl, the same girl
I can't believe it no (Hey)
The same girl, same girl