Went from Mr. 305, (Dade County), to Mr. Worldwide
(All around the world)
Ayy, ayy
Now we're International, so international, international, so international
Oh, yeah (woo!)

You can't catch me, boy (Can't catch me, boy)
I'm overseas and about a hundred G's per show
Don't test me, boy (Don't test me, boy)
'Cause I rap with the best for sure
305 'til the death of me, cremate my body and let the ocean have what's left of me
But for now, forget about that
Blow the whistle, baby, you're the referee, dalé

You put it down like New York City, I never sleep (Yeah)
Wild like Los Angeles, my fantasy (Chris Brown, woo!)
Hotter than Miami, I-I-I feel the heat, oh, yeah
Oh, girl, it's international love, oh, oh, oh, yeah, it's international love (woo!)

I don’t play football, but I've touched down everywhere
(Everywhere? Everywhere)
I don’t play baseball, but I've hit a home run everywhere (Everywhere? Everywhere) (Dale)
I've been to countries and cities I can’t pronounce and the places on the globe I didn't know existed (Yeah)
In Romania, she pulled me to the side and told me, "Pit, you can have me and my sister"
In Lebanon, yeah, the women are bomb
And in Greece, you've guessed it the women are sweet
Been all around the world, but I ain't gon' lie
There's nothing like Miami’s heat (Dalé)

You put it down like New York City, I never sleep (Yeah)
Wild like Los Angeles, my fantasy (Uh-huh, woo!)
Hotter than Miami, I-I-I feel the heat, oh, yeah (woo!)
Oh, girl, it's international love, oh, oh, oh, yeah, it's international love (We're international, let's rise)

Down in DR they looking for visas
I ain't talking credit cards, if you know what I mean
En Cuba, la cosa esta dura, but the women get down, if you know what I mean
In Columbia the women got everything done, but they some of the most beautiful women I've ever seen
In Brazil, they freaky with big ol' boobs and they thongs, blue yellow and green
En L.A., tengo la Mexicana
En New York, tengo la boricua
Besitos para todas las mujeres en Venezuela, muah
Y en Miami tengo a cualquiera

You put it down like New York City, hey, I never sleep
Wild like Los Angeles, oh, whoa, my fantasy (Woo!)
Hotter than Miami, I-I-I feel the heat, oh, yeah
Oh, girl, it's international love, oh, oh, oh, yeah, it's international love (All around the world, international, woo!)

There’s not a place that your love don’t affect me, baby
So don’t ever change
I crossed the globe when I'm with you, baby
Hey, oh, whoa
Chris Brown, this for the women worldwide, lets ride (woo!)

You put it down like New York City, I never sleep (Woo)
Wild like Los Angeles, my fantasy (Ayy, ayy)
Hotter than Miami, I-I-I feel the heat (You're hotter than Miami) (305)
Oh, girl, it's international love, oh, oh, oh, yeah, it's international love (Woo! Let's ride)
You put it down like New York City, I never sleep (Down) (woo!)
Wild like Los Angeles, my fantasy (Los Angeles)
Hotter than Miami, I-I-I feel the heat, oh, yeah (305)
Oh, oh, it's international love, oh, oh, oh, it's international love (Woo!)

Oh, oh, oh
(You're international, so international)
Oh, oh, oh
(You're international, so international)
Oh, oh, oh
(You're international, so international)
Oh, oh, oh
(You're international, so international)
Whoa, oh, whoa, whoa
International love (Surrounded by beautiful girls)
Whoa, oh, whoa, whoa
International love