Umm...Go head daddy!
We doing it with L....(Laughs)....Go head baby. Who do ya luv baby?

How you doin', miss? My name is L, I'm from Queens
I heard about your man, he like to lace you with cream
Dolce Gabbana, Moschino with Donna jeans
But he slipped up, and threw his rock to a fiend
He be playin' like a Willie 'cause he dress ya dove
Never knowin' that his woman is in need of love
You got Versace gold link stomach chains with rocks
Official hair style but you stuck up in the spot
Makin love, Duke is weak then he fallin asleep
You on the phone wit your old peeps dyin' to creep 'tween my sheets
So what you got Chanel on your feet
Hot sex on a platter makes the mission complete, uh

Who do you love? (I wanna lounge with you)
Are you for sure? (I do what I gotta do)

Jew-els and Cristal got him actin' funny style
He ain't watchin' you, he rather watch his money pile
Can't protect treasures when it's in a glass house
Soon as he turn the corner I'mma turn that ass out
Full blown, frontin' in the 6 with the chrome
Yo B, why you leave your honey all alone with me?
Just because you blessed with cash
Doesn't mean your honey won't let me finesse that ass
So see the moral of the story is a woman need love
The kind you so-called players never dreamed of
You got to try love, can't buy love
If you play your hand, then it's bye-bye love

Who do you love? (I wanna lounge with you)
Are you for sure? (I do what I gotta do)

Who do you love? Are you for sure? (You know it's you)
Who do you love? Are you for sure? (I do what I gotta do)

So what you got the cash flow in escrow, damn
But your honey ran away like presto, ala-kazam
Man made the money, money never made the man
You still fakin' jacks throwin' rocks on her hand
See, you put your mack down, now you Nino Brown
Rock roller with so much ice your cap's polar
I got her smokin' beedies, modeling bikinis
Pushin' your whip on the Van Wyck to see me
I keep it steamy, I make it burn when it's my turn
Teaching shorty all the jewels that you never learned
Don't get it twisted, getting money ain't wrong
But she wanna make love all night long, I'm gone

Who do you love? (I wanna lounge with you)
Are you for sure? (I do what I gotta do)

Who do you love? Are you for sure? (You know it's you)
Who do you love? Are you for sure? (Are you for sure?)

Who do you love? (Repeat with LL Cool J ad-libs)