I got something to say, something to say
Alright (Can you feel me?)
Come on
Can you fill me in?
What you want? What you want me to do, baby?
Can you fill me in?
Let's talk about it

I was checking this girl next door when her parents went out
She phoned said, "Hey boy, come on right around"
So I knock at the door
You was standin' with a bottle of red wine, ready to pour
Dressed in long black satin and lace to the floor
So I went in, then we sat down start kissing, caressing
Told me about Jacuzzi, sounded interesting
So we jumped right in
All calls diverted to answer phone
Please leave a message after the tone
I mean me and her parents were kind of cool
But they were the fine line between me and you
We were just doing things young people in love do
Parents tryna find out what we were up to

Saying, "Why were you creeping 'round late last night?
Why did I see two shadows moving in your bedroom light?
Now you're dressed in black
When I left, you were dressed in white
Can you fill me in?"
Calls diverted to answer phone
Red wine bottle, half the contents gone
Midnight return, Jacuzzi turned on
Can you fill me in? (It's another one, it's another one)

Whenever the coast was clear and she'd ask me to come out
I'd say, "Hey girl, come on right around"
So she knocked at the door
I was standing with the keys in my hand to the four by four
Jumped in my ride, checkin' that nobody saw
The club we went in
We got down bounced- bounced to the rhythm
Saw it was early morning
Thought we'd better be leavin'
So I gave you my jacket for you to hold
Told you to wear it 'cause you felt cold
I mean me and her didn't mean to break the rules
I weren't trying to play your mum and dad for fools
We were just doing things young people in love do
Parents tryna find out what we were up to

Saying, "Why can't you keep your promises no more?
Say you'll be home by twelve, come strolling in at four?
Out went the girls, but leaving with the boy next door
Can you fill me in?
Wearing a jacket, who's property
Said you'd been queuing for a taxi
But you left all your money on the TV (Can you tell me?)
Can you fill me in? (Can you fill me in?)"

All they seem to do is be checking up on you, baby
Watchin' our every move
Think some day they might approve, baby

"Why were you creeping 'round late last night?
Why did I see two shadows moving in your bedroom light?
Now you're dressed in black
When I left, you were dressed in white
Can you fill me in? (Can you fill me in?)"
Calls diverted to answer phone
Red wine bottle, half the contents gone
Midnight return, Jacuzzi turned on
Can you fill me in? (Can you fill me in?)