I'm gonna make a change
For once in my life
Gonna feel real good
Gonna make a difference
Gonna make it right
As I turn up the collar on my favorite winter coat
This wind is blowin' my mind
See the kids in the street, with not enough to eat
Who am I to be blind, pretending not to see their needs
A summer's disregard, a broken bottle top
And one man's soul
They follow each other on the wind, ya know
'Cause they got nowhere to go
That's why I want you to know

I'm starting with the man in the mirror
I'm asking him to change his ways
And no message could have been any clearer
If you wanna make the world a better place
Take a look at yourself and then make a change
Na-na-na na-na-na nana-nana

I've been a victim of a selfish kinda love
It's time that I realize
There are some with no home
Not a nickel to loan
Could it be really me pretending that they're not alone
A willow deeply scarred, somebody's broken heart
And a washed-out dream
They follow the pattern of the wind, ya see
'Cause they got no place to be
That's why I'm starting with me

I'm starting with the man in the mirror (Who?)
I'm asking him to change his ways (Who?)
And no message could have been any clearer
If you wanna make the world a better place
Take a look at yourself and then make a change
I'm starting with the man in the mirror (Who?)
I'm asking him to change his ways (Who?)
And no message could have been any clearer
If you wanna make the world a better place
Take a look at yourself and then make that change
I'm starting with the man in the mirror (Man in the mirror, oh yeah)
I'm asking him to change his ways (Change his ways)
(Come on, change)
And no message could have been any clearer

If you wanna make the world a better place
Take a look at yourself and then make the change
You gotta get it right, while you got the time
'Cause when you close your heart (You can't)
Then you close your mind (Close your, your mind!)

(That man, that man) I'm starting with the man in the mirror
(That man)
(Ooh!)
(That man, that man) I'm asking him to change his ways
(That man, the man)
(Change his ways, ooh!)
And no message could have been any clearer
If you want to make the world a better place
Take a look at yourself and then make that
(Take a look at yourself and then make that)
Change!

Woo, woo (Na-na-na na-na-na nana-nana) woo, woo, woo, woo, woo
Gonna feel real good (Oh yeah)
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah (Na-na-na na-na-na nana-nana)
Yeah, yeah, oh, oh no
I'm gonna make a change
It's gonna feel real good, Shamone (Change)
Just lift yourself, you know
You've got to start with yourself, (Yeah) hoo!
(Make that change) I gotta make that change today, woo!
(Man in the mirror) You got to, you got to not pick yourself, brother, hoo! (Yeah)
You know (Make that change)
I've gotta get that man, that man (Man in the mirror)
You got to, you got to move, Shamone, Shamone
You got to stand up (Yeah) stand up (Make that change) stand up, stand up and lift yourself now (Man in the mirror)
Hoo, hoo, hoo! Ow! (Yeah, make that change)
Make that change, Shamone (Man in the mirror)
You know it, you know it, you know it, you know (Change)
Make that change!