One, one two
Check me out right here yo

Yo, the sun don't shine forever
You can turn the track up a little bit for me
But as long as it's here then we might as well shine together
All up in my ears
Better now than never, business before pleasure
The mic is loud, but the beats isn't loud
P. Diddy and the Fam, who you know do it better?
Yeah right, no matter what, we air tight (YEAH!)
So when you hear somethin', make sure you hear it right
Don't make a ass outta yourself, by assumin'
YEAH! Now the mic is lower, turn the mics up
Our music keeps you movin', what are you provin'?
Turn that shit all the way up, yeah
You know that I'm two levels above you baby
Music's gettin' louder
Hug me baby, I'ma make you love me baby
This shit is hot!
Talkin' crazy, ain't gon' get you nuthin' but choked
Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh
And that jealousy is only gonna leave you broke
So the only thing left now is God for these cats
And BIG you know you too hard for these cats
I'ma win 'cause I'm too smart for these cats
While they makin' up facts (uhh) you rakin' up plaques

In the commission, you ask for permission to hit 'em
He don't like me, hit him while wifey was with him
You heard of us, the murderous, most shady
Been on the low lately, the Feds hate me
The son of (*Satan*), they say my killing's too blatant
You hesitatin', I'm in your mama crib waitin'
Duct tapin', your fam' destiny
Lays in my hands, gat lays in my waist
Francis, M to the izz-H phenomenal
Gun rest under your vest by the abdominal
Rhyme a few bars so I could buy a few cars
And I kick a few flows so I could pimp a few hoes
Excellence is my presence, never tense
Never hesitant, leave a nigga bent real quick
Real sick, brawl nights, I perform like Mike
Anyone - Tyson, Jordan, Jackson
Action, pack guns, ridiculous
And I'm, quick to bust, if my ends you touch
Kids or girl you touch, in this world I clutch
Two auto-matoes, used to call me fatso
Now you call me Castro, my rap flows
Militant, y'all faggots ain't killin' shit
Oops Cristal keep spillin' shit; you overdid it holmes
You in the danger zone, you shouldn't be alone
Hold hands and say it like me
The most shady, Frankie baby, fantastic
Graphic, tryin' to make dough, like Jurassic
Park did quick to spark kids who start shit
See me, only me the underboss
Of this holocaust, truly yours, Frank White

We got the real live shit from front to back
To my people in the world, where the fuck you at?
Where my niggas is at? Where my niggas is at?
Where the fuck my bitches at? Where my bitches is at?
We got the real live shit from front to back
To my people in the world, where the fuck you at?
Where my niggas is at? Where my niggas is at?
Where the fuck my bitches at? Where my bitches is at?

Put your money on the table and get your math on
Break it down, split it up, get your laugh on
See you later Dog, I'ma get my stash on
There's a bed full of money that I get my ass on
I never lose the passion to go platinum
Said I'd live it up 'til all the cash gone
Ain't that funny, only use plastic, craft it
To make classics, hotter than acid
P-D, rollin' on your tape or CD
The Billboard killa, no team illa
The Fam-o, ammo, is every channel
We been hot for a long time burnin' like a candle
What you can do is check your distribution
My songs bump in Houston like Scarface produced 'em
You ain't gotta like me, you just mad
'Cause I tell it how it is, and you tell it how it might be

We got the shit mapped tight, brass knuckles and flashlights
The heaters in the two-seaters, with two miras
Senoritas, kiss rings when you meet us
P. Diddy run the city, show no pity
I'm the witty one, Frank's the crook from the Brook'
Mad he broke the neck of your coke connect
No respect squeeze off 'til all y'all diminish
Shootouts for twenty minutes, until we finish
Venice took the loot, escaped, in the Coupe
Break bread, with the 'Kiss, Peniro, Sheek Louch'
Black Rob joined the Mob, it ain't no replacin' him
Niggas step up, we just macin' them, placin' them
In fune-rals, criminals turned aroused
To Brick City, nobody come off like P. Diddy
Business wise, I play men
Hide money on the Island Cayman
Y'all just betray men, we spray men, I position competition
Another day in the life of the commission

We got the real live shit from front to back
To my niggas in the world, where the fuck you at?
Where my niggas is at? Where my niggas is at?
Where the fuck my bitches at? Where my bitches is at?
We got the real live shit from front to back
To my people in the world, where the fuck you at?
Where my niggas is at? Where my niggas is at?
Where the fuck my bitches at? Where my bitches is at?
We got the real live shit from front to back
To my people in the world, where the fuck you at?
Where my niggas is at? Where my niggas is at?
Where the fuck my bitches at? Where my bitches is at?
We got the real live shit from front to back
To my people in the world, where the fuck you at?
Where my niggas is at? Where my niggas is at?
Where the fuck my bitches at? Where my bitches is at?

Ayo, can you hear me out there?
Ayo turn me up, nobody can hear me out there
That's good, it's all fucked up now
Y'all know it's all fucked up now right?
What the fuck I'ma do now?
What I'ma do now?
Can y'all hear me out there?

We got the real live shit!!
Can y'all hear me out there?
Fuck y'all niggas wanna do
It's all fucked up now.. what I'ma do now, huh?
What I'ma do now? It's all fucked up now