I'm coming home, I'm coming home
Tell the world I'm coming home
Let the rain wash away
All the pain of yesterday
I know my kingdom awaits
And they've forgiven my mistakes
I'm coming home, I'm coming home
Tell the world I'm coming

I'm back where I belong (Uh, yeah)
I never felt so strong, aye (Yeah, I'm back, baby)
I feel like there's nothing that I can't try (Uh, nothin')
And if you with me put your hands high (Yeah, put your hands high)
High, aye (If you ever lost a light before, this one's for you)
And if you with me put your hands high (And you, the dreams are for you rocking with the best)
High, aye (And you, and you)
I mean I'm strong

I hear the "Tears of a Clown," uh, I hate that song
I always feel like they're talking to me, when it comes on (Come on)
Another day, another dawn
Another Keisha, nice to meet ya, get the math, I'm gone
What am I supposed to do when the club lights come on?
It's easy to be Puff but it's harder to be Sean (Come on)
What if my twins ask me why I ain't marry their mom? (Why?)
Damn, how do I respond?
What if my son stares with a face like my own
And says he wants to be like me when he's grown?
Shit! But I ain't finished growing
Another night, the inevitable prolongs (Let's go)
Another day, another dawn (Come on)
Just tell Keisha and Teresa I'll be better in the morn' (I'll be better in the morn')
Another lie that I carry on
I need to get back to the place where I belong, come on (Yeah, let's go)

I'm coming home, I'm coming home (I'm coming home)
Tell the world that I'm coming home (Yeah)
Let the rain wash away
All the pain of yesterday (Ain't no more pain)
I know my kingdom awaits
And they've forgiven my mistakes (Thank you)
I'm coming home, I'm coming home (I'm coming home, I'm coming home)
Tell the world that I'm coming home (Yeah, ayo, check this out)

“A House Is Not a Home,” I hate this song
Is a house really a home when your loved ones is gone? (No)
And niggas got the nerve to blame you for it (Come on)
And you know you woulda took the bullet if you saw it (That's right)
But you felt it, and still feel it
And money can't make up for it or conceal it (Or conceal it)
But you deal with it (Deal with it)
And you keep ballin' (That's right)
Pour out some liquor, playboy, and we keep ballin' (Keep ballin')
Baby, we been living in sin
'Cause we been really in love, but we been living as friends (Yeah)
So you've been a guest in your own home (Come on)
It's time to make your house your home (Yeah)
Pick up your phone, come on (Pick up the phone)

I'm coming home, I'm coming home
Tell the world that I'm coming home (I'm coming home)
Let the rain wash away
All the pain of yesterday
I know my kingdom awaits
And they've forgiven my mistakes (Thank you)
I'm coming home, I'm coming home (I'm coming home, I'm coming home)
Tell the world that I'm coming home (I'm almost home, check this out, yeah)

“Ain’t No Stopping Us Now,” I love that song
Whenever it comes on, it makes me feel strong
I thought I told y'all that we won't stop (We won't stop)
Til we back cruisin through Harlem, these old blocks (Yeah)
It's what made me (Uh huh), saved me, drove me crazy (Oh, oh)
Drove me away (Come on), then embraced me (Yeah, yeah)
Forgave me for all of my shortcomings (Let's go) (Oh yeah)
Welcome to my homecoming (Coming)
Yeah, it's been a long time coming
Lot of fights, lot of scars, lot of bottles
Lot of cars, lot of ups, lot of downs
Made it back, lost my dog (I miss you Big!)
But here I stand (Come on) (Here I stand)
A better man (Don't stop) (A better man)
Thank you, Lord! (Thank you, Lord!)
Thank you all!

I'm coming home, I'm coming home (Oh!)
Tell the world that I'm coming home (I'm coming home!)
Let the rain wash away (Feels so good!)
All the pain of yesterday (Feels so free!)
I know my kingdom awaits (Ain't no place like home, baby)
And they've forgiven my mistakes (Ain't no place like home!)
I'm coming home, I'm coming home (I'm coming home!) (I'm coming home, I'm coming home)
Tell the world that I'm coming home (Tell the world I'm coming home)