Uh, U.N.I.T.Y., U.N.I.T.Y. that's a unity
U.N.I.T.Y., love a black man from infinity to infinity
(Who you callin' a bitch?)

U.N.I.T.Y., U.N.I.T.Y. that's a unity (You gotta let him know)
(You go, come on, here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., love a black woman from (Uh, you gotta let him know)
Infinity to infinity (You ain't a bitch or a ho, here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., U.N.I.T.Y. that's a unity (Uh, you gotta let him know)
(Come on, come on, now here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., love a black man from (Yeah, you gotta let him know)
Infinity to infinity (You ain't a bitch or a ho)

Instinct leads me to another flow
Every time I hear a brother call a girl a bitch or a ho
Tryna make a sister feel low
You know all of that gots to go
Now everybody knows there's exceptions to this rule
Now don't be gettin' mad, when we playin', it's cool
But don't you be calling me out my name
I bring wrath to those who disrespect me like a dame
That's why I'm talkin', one day I was walkin' down the block
I had my cutoff shorts on right cause it was crazy hot
I walked past these dudes when they passed me
One of 'em felt my booty, he was nasty
I turned around red, somebody was catchin' the wrath
Then the little one said, "Ha ha, yeah me, bitch," and laughed
Since he was with his boys, he tried to break fly
Huh, I punched him dead in his eye
And said, "Who you callin' a bitch?" Yeah !

U.N.I.T.Y., U.N.I.T.Y. that's a unity (Here we go, you gotta let him know)
(You go, come on, here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., love a black woman from (You gotta let him know)
Infinity to infinity (You ain't a bitch or a ho, here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., U.N.I.T.Y. that's a unity (Uh, you gotta let him know)
(You go, come on here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., love a black man from (Yeah, you gotta let him know)
Infinity to infinity (You ain't a bitch or a ho)

I hit the bottom, there ain't nowhere else to go but up
Bad days at work give you an attitude and you erupt
And take it out on me but that's about enough
You put your hands on me again I'll put your ass in handcuffs
I guess I fell so deep in love I grew dependency
I was too blind to see just how it was affectin' me
All that I knew was you was all the man I had
And I was scared to let you go
Even though you treated me bad
But I don’t want to see my kids see me gettin' beat down by daddy smackin' mommy all around
You say I'm nothin' without ya but I'm nothing' with ya
A man don't really love you if he hits ya
This is my notice to the door, I'm not takin' it no more
I'm not your personal whore, that's not what I'm here for
And nothing good gon' come to ya til you do right by me
Brother you wait and see (Who you callin' a bitch? Uh !)

U.N.I.T.Y., U.N.I.T.Y. that's a unity (Here we go, you gotta let him know)
(Come on, here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., love a black man from (Yeah, you gotta let him know)
Infinity to infinity (You ain't a bitch or a ho, here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., U.N.I.T.Y. that's a unity (Uh, you gotta let him know)
(Come on, here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., love a black woman from (Yeah, you gotta let him know)
Infinity to infinity (You ain't a bitch or a ho)

What's goin' on in your mind is what I ask ya
But like Yo-Yo, you don't hear me though
You wear a rag around your head
And you call yourself a "gangsta bitch"
Now that you saw Apache's video
I saw you wildin', actin' like a fool
I peeped you out the window jumping girls after school
But where did all of this come from?
A minute ago, you was a nerd and nobody ever heard of ya
Now you a wannabe... hard
You barely know your ABC's, please
There's plenty of people out there with triggers ready to pull it
Why you tryna jump in front of the bullet (Young lady) ?
Uh, and real bad girls are the silent type
Ain't none of this worth gettin' your face sliced
Cause that's what happened to your homegirl, right?
(Barking with no bite!)
She got to wear that for life
(Who you callin' a bitch? Uh !)

U.N.I.T.Y., U.N.I.T.Y. that's a unity (Here we go, you gotta let him know)
(Come on, here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., Love a black woman from (You gotta let him know)
Infinity to infinity (You ain't a bitch or a ho, here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., U.N.I.T.Y. that's a unity (Gotta let him know)
(Come on, here we go)
U.N.I.T.Y., Love a black man from (You must let him know)
Infinity to infinity (You ain't a bitch or a ho)