Let's take some calls from the request line
Caller number one.....
Ay,..man...whats up
This Dominique from shay lil' shack bar
Whats up Dominique
I wanna hear that song from Lil Jon and Petey Pablo
Aight, I got that coming right up for you
Now shoutout the radio station that gave you what you
Wanted
Double-u boom boom b baby!

(How you like it daddy?)
Would you do it from the front?
(How you like it daddy?)
Would you do it from the back?
(How you like it daddy?)
Fyna break it down like that!
(How you like it daddy?)
(How you like it daddy?)
Would you do it from the front?
(How you like it daddy?)
Can you take it from the back?
(How you like it daddy?)
Fyna break it down like that!
(How you like it daddy?)

24, 34, 46, good and thick, and once you get it she'll work wit it
Put a face and some cute lips, earing and a tongue and she know what to do wit it
Make a name for herself, and she do her shit well, and know how to keep her business to herself
Come over anytime a nigga call chick, 1 o'clock, 2 o'clock, (ding dong) and she right there
And she know why she came here, and she know where her clothes suppose to be (off and over there)
Sniff a little coke, take a little x, smoke a little weed, drink a little bit
I need a girl that I can freak wit
And wanna try shit, and ain't scared of a big dick
And love to get her pussy licked
By another bitch, cus I ain't drunk enough to do that

FREAKALEEK!
(Do you like it daddy?) Shameka
Keisha
(Do you like it daddy?) Tyra
FREAKALEEK!
Shonda
(Do you like it daddy?) Sabrina
Crystal
(Do you like it daddy?)Kiandra
FREAKALEEK!
Theresa
(Do you like it daddy?) Falicia
Tenisha
(Do you like it daddy?) Sharon
FREAKALEEK!
Monica
(Do you like it daddy?) Monique
Christina
(Do you like it daddy?) Yolanda

I need to know a whole lot then to teachin' a broad, with my ding dong make her tongue tickin the bong
Go on ahead so I dont have to do that far, I'm spoiled (and I don't like to work that hard)
I like to lay back, relax, and enjoy my time, and let your eyes roll back and my toes curl
(I love when you do that girl) Until it comes time for me to have to give her hers
Tell me what you want, do you want it missionary with your feet cramed into the head board?
Do you want it from the back with your face in the pillow so you can
Yell it loud if you want to?
Do you want it on the floor? Do you want it on the chair?
Do you want it over here? Do you want it over there?
Do you want it in ya pussy? Do you want it in ya ass?
Mmmm...Anything you can handle!


Yeah, I appreciate it lil' home boy
Not a problem. You know I do it because I love you
Now I got to give a shoutout to Seagrim Gin cus I drink it, and they
Paying me for it