Yeah, yeah, baby, is you drunk? Is you had enough?
Are you here lookin' for love? Ooh, ooh
Got the club goin' crazy
All these bitches, but my eyes on you
Is you somebody's baby?
If you ain't, girl, what we gon' do?
If your ego need it, baby, yeah, yeah, yeah (oh)
Give it all up for you right now
We got the club goin' crazy
All eyes, all eyes on you

She was the baddest, I was the realest (ooh, ooh)
We was the flyest, up in the buildin' (yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah)
We was countin' this money, lovin' the feelin' (ooh, oh, ooh)
Look at you now, in love with a hitta (yeah, yeah, yeah)
But now it's all eyes on me, and it all lies on me (yeah, yeah)
To say somethin' to your pretty ass
Some hood shit, what you lookin' at? (Uh-huh)
'Cause I'm good for that, Birkin bags, I'm good for that (yeah)
Might just be your plug for that (yeah)
You might fall in love with that, got love for that (yeah, yeah, yeah)
What's your name? Who you with?
Where you from? You the shit
Choose and pick, get the right one
All these chicks, got to like one (yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah)
All these hits, you got to like one
All these bottles, got to like some (oh, ooh)
All these models, got the right one
What you gon' do? Hide or run? Woah
You ready?

Baby, is you drunk? Is you had enough?
Are you here lookin' for love? Ooh, ooh
Got the club goin' crazy
All these bitches, but my eyes on you
Is you somebody's baby?
If you ain't, girl, what we gon' do? (Ooh)
If your ego need it, baby, yeah, yeah, yeah (baby, yeah, yeah, yeah)
Give it all up for you right now
We got the club goin' crazy
All eyes, all eyes on you

Yo, he was the realest, I was the baddest, we was the illest
When he approached me, I said, "Yo what the deal is?"
In and out them dealers, rockin' chinchillas
I got him in the back of that 'bach, I think he catchin' feelings
Now it's all eyes on us, and this all lies on trust
And if them bitches wanna trip, tell 'em they tour guide's on us
This kitty cat on reclusive, he duck, duckin' them gooses
I put him on to that new new, now he only fuck with exclusives
He was like (What's your name?) My name Nick
(Where you from?) New York in this bitch
(Choose and pick) You got the right one
All them hoes, ain't nothin' like them
Nigga, you know you'd never wife them
None of them niggas ain't never hit this
Still at the top of all they hit lists
What they gon' do? Meek and Nick

Yeah, baby, is you drunk? Is you had enough?
Are you here lookin' for love? Ooh, ooh
Got the club goin' crazy
All these hittas, but my eyes on you
Is you somebody's baby? (Ah, ooh, ooh)
If you ain't, boy, what we gon' do?
If your ego need it, baby, yeah, yeah, yeah (oh)
Give it all up for you right now
We got the club goin' crazy
All eyes, all eyes on you

She was the baddest, he was the realest (ooh, ooh)
We was the flyest, we was the illest
(Yeah, yeah, yeah)
I was the realest, I was the baddest (ooh, ooh)
We was the flyest, up in the buildin' (oh, ooh)
(Yeah, yeah, yeah)