I just wanna rock you, all night long
Oh-oh!
I just wanna rock you (Uh-huh), all night long
Oh-oh!

Yo!
Need you to understand me, daddy, I ain't your average
Baby girl, doin' it all, I'm well established
I ain't tryna lead you on, just wanna ask
If you might wanna give me your name, explain your status
You know I see you in time and time, you seem available
Don't mean shit, I know these bitches wanna settle you
Gotta say you on my short list of few
Them other dudes is ok, but I'm feelin you
Want you in the best way, what you 'gon do about it?
Why don't you just test me, you won't want to do without it
Yo, I'm comin' at you hard, bein' a thug
And I ain't givin up till I get that gangsta love, uh-huh

I just wanna rock you, all night long
Oh-oh!
(I wanna rock ya) I just wanna rock you, all night long
Oh-oh!

I know you seen me this night, that night, always my shit tight
Hair done, outfit crazy, skirts fit just right
Wife-beater with a bangin' tan
Walk in, demandin' all eyes, baby, here I am (You know)
Ain't a shame in my frame and I know you're watchin'
Puttin' on a show for you, pop, and I ain't stoppin' (You know)
Lot of action in your corner, yeah, you gonna do
Only thing to make it better though is me with you (You know it)
And I know you feelin' that regardless of your frontin'
And I heard through the streets it was me you wantin'
Let me find out, you shy or somethin'
But I know you're not
So stop the games and approach, is you real or not? (Real or not)

I just wanna rock you, all night long
Oh-oh!
(I wanna rock ya) I just wanna rock you, all night long
(All night long)
Oh-oh!

Yo! Uh! Ok!
Numbers exchange, now it's in place
Shouldn't of took you so long in the first place
I'm just playin' cutie, yeah, give me a call
No, it's cool, you ain't got to see me to my car
See, I'm a big girl (Big girl), but you'll find out (Oh yeah)
Stop for me while I drop top and ride out (Ride out)
Wheels spinnin', wanna know what shorty all about?
But it's cool, I'm provin' these words that's comin' out my mouth

It's that gangsta lovin' (Gangsta) that's just got me buggin' (Buggin')
It's that gangsta lovin (Gangsta, gangsta) that just got me buggin'
(Oh-ah!)

I just wanna rock you, all night long
Oh-oh!
(I wanna rock ya) I just wanna rock you, all night long (all night long)
(All night)
Oh-oh!

I wanna rock you, baby, I wanna hold you, baby
Won't you be my baby? I wanna be your lady
I wanna rock you, baby, I wanna hold you, baby
Won't you be my baby? I wanna be your lady (yeah yeah)
Baby, let me rock with you (This gangsta, gangsta love)
You know I wanna rock with you (Gangsta, gangsta)
Baby let me rock with you (The E-V-E)
You know I wanna rock with you (A. Keys, gonna rock ya)
Baby, let me rock with you
You know I wanna rock with you (It's gangsta, gangsta love)
Baby let me rock with you (It's Gangsta gangsta)
You know I wanna rock with you (It's gangsta, gangsta love)
Ooh, yeah, you know I wanna rock with you
Baby, let me rock with you