Yeah, word is bond
Das EFX in this yaknowhatI'msayin
Straight from the sewer, word is bond
Yeah, yah, ah, yeah
We doing this with my nigga
Where my nigga Ice Cube in the motherfucker
Word is bond, yeah

You better check yo self before you wreck yo self
'Cause I'm bad for your health
I come real stealth
Dropping bombs on your moms
Fuck car alarms
Doing foul crime
I'm that nigga wit'cha Alpine
Sold it for a six-o, always let tricks know
And friends know we got the indo
No I'm not a sucker sitting in a House of Pain
And no I'm not the butler, I'll cut ya
Head-butt ya, you say you can't touch this
And I wouldn't touch ya, in fact mothafucka
Here to let you know boy - oh boy
I make dough but don't call me Dough Boy
This ain't no fucking motion picture
A guy or bitch-a, I'll get wit-cha
And hit you taking that yak to the neck
So you better run a check

(So come on and chickity-check yo self before you wreck yo self
Chickity-check yo self before you wreck yo self
Yeah, come on and check yo self before you wreck yo self)
'Cause shotgun bullets are bad for your health
Mic-mic-microphone check (One, two! Check it!)
Mic-mic-microphone check (One, two! Check it!)

Tricks wanna step to Cube and then they get played
'Cause they bitchmade pulling out a switchblade
That's kinda trifle 'cause that's a knife, ho
AK-47, Assault Rifle
Hold the fifty, I'm nifty, pow
I gotta new style (Watch out now)
I hate motherfuckers claiming that they folding bank
But steady talking shit in the holding tank
First you wanna step to me?
Now your ass screaming for the deputy
They send you to Charlie-Baker-Denver row
Now they runnin' up in you slow
You're gone, used to be the Don Juan (check that shit out)
Now your name is just Twan
Switch it, snap it, rolling your eyes and neck
You better run a check

(So chickity-check yo self before you wreck yo self
Come on and check yo self before you wrickity-wreck yo self
So chickity-check yo self before you wreck yo self)
'Cause big dicks up yo ass is bad for ya health
Mic-mic-microphone check (One, two! Check it!)
Mic-mic-microphone check (One, two! Check it!)

If you're foul, you better run a make on that license plate
You coulda had a V8
Instead of a tre-eight slug to the cranium (POW!)
I got six and I'm aimin' 'em
Will I shoot or keep you guessing?
'Cause fuck you and that shit you're stressing
Bitch get off the wood, you're no good
There goes the neighborhood hooker (slut)
Go ahead and keep your drawers
Giving up the claps and who needs applause
At a time like this, pop the coochie and you dead
The bitch is a Miami Hurricane head
Sprung, niggas call her 'Lips & Lungs'
Nappy dugout, get the fuck out
'Cause women like you gets no respect
Bitch, you better run a check

(So chickity-check yo self before you wreck yo self
So chickity-check yo self before you wreck yo self
Come on and check yo self before you wrickity-wreck yo self)
'Cause bitches like you is bad for my health
Mic-mic-microphone check (One, two! Check it!)  come again check it
Mic-mic-microphone check (One, two! Check it!) come again check it
(Chickity-check yo self before you wreck yo self
You better chickity-check yo self before you wreck yo self
I said check yo self before you wrickity-wreck yo self) check, check
(Chickity-check yo self before you wreck yo self
You better chickity-check yo self before you wreck yo self
I said check yo self before you wrickity-wreck yo self) check, check
Mic-mic-microphone check
Mic-mic-microphone check  (check it, one, two!)
Mic-mic-microphone check  (One, two! )
Mic-mic-microphone check  (check it, one, two, one, two!)
Mic-mic-microphone check  (one, two!)
Mic-mic-microphone check  (check it, one, two!, one, two! )
Mic-mic-microphone check  (one, two)
Mic-mic-microphone check  (Check yo self Cube, Check yo self Cube, check yo self... )