The Next Stage of Evolution:
One World, One People, ONE LOVE
Gnosticism: an esoteric system of mystical religious and philosophical doctrines, stressing knowledge as essential to salvation, viewing matter as evil, and variously combining ideas derived from mythology, ancient Greek philosophy, ancient religions, and, eventually, Christianity.  In short, it is a system of “salvation by knowledge” rather than salvation through Jesus Christ.

2) The Signs of Society — Jesus said that society will become increasingly lawless and immoral as the time approaches for His return. In fact, He said it would become as evil as it was in the days of Noah
The Spiritual Signs The positive spiritual signs include the proclamation of the Gospel to the whole world (Matthew 24:14), a great outpouring of the Holy Spirit (Joel 2:28-32), and spiritual illumination to understand prophecies that have been "sealed up" until the end times (Daniel 12:4,9).


5) The Signs of World Politics — The Bible prophesies that there will be a certain pattern of world politics that will characterize the end time geopolitical map.



1/8	JOHN FARNAM – THE VOICE
We have the chance to turn the pages over.
We can write what we want to write.
We gotta make ends meet, before we get much older.
We’re all someone’s daughter.
We’re all someone’s son.
How can we take a look at each other, down the barrel of a gun?

This time, we know we can all stand together, with the power to be powerful, BELIEVING we can make it better.’
1/5	2PAC/ DR DRE – CALIFORNIA LOVE
California Love!
California…..Knows how to Party
California…...Knows how to Party
In the citaaay of L>A
In the citaaay of good ol watts
In the citaaay, the city of Compton.
WE KEEP IT ROCKIN!	WE KEEP IT ROCKIN!
‘Now let me welcome everybody to the wild wild west. A state that’s untouchable like Elliot Ness. The track hits your eardrum like a slug to your chest, pack a vest for your Jimmy in the city of sex.’
‘We in that sunshine state where that bomb ass hemp BE, the state where ya never find a dance floor empty.’
‘And pimps be on a mission for them greens. Lean, mean, money making machines servin fiends. I’ve been in the game for 10 years making rap tunes, Ever since honeys was wearing Sassoon.’
‘Now it’s 95 and they clock me and watch mme, Diamonds shinning like a wild liberace.’ It’s all good from Diego to the Bay, Your city is tha bomb if your city makin pay.’
‘Throw up a finger if ya feel the same way, Dre putting it down for
	CALIFORN – 1 - A
‘Out on bail, fresh outta jail, California Dreamin. Soon as I step on the scene I’m hearin hoochies screaming. Feindin for money and alcohol, The life of a west side player where cowards die and it’s all BALL.’
‘Only in Cali where we riot not rally to live and die in LA we wearin chucks not ballies (that’s right). Dressed in Locs and Khaki suits and ride is what we do. Flossin but have caution we collide with other crews.’
‘Famous cause we’re programed. ‘
‘Worldwide, let em recognise from long beach to Rosecrans. Bumpin and grindin like a slow jam.
‘It’s westside so you know the row won’t bow down to no man.’
Say what you say but give me that bomb beat from DRE, let me serenade the streets of LA. From Oakland to sacktown, The Bay area and BACK DOWN.
‘Cali is where they put they mack down.’
GIVE ME LOVE
2/8	MADONNA – LIKE A PRAYER
‘Life is a mystery, everyone must stand alone. I hear you call my name and it feels like home………
‘I hear your voice. It’s like an angel sighing, I have no choice I hear your voice, feels like flying. I close my eyes, oh god I think I’m falling out of the sky, I close my eyes.’
	HEAVEN HELP ME!
2/5	2PAC – HOLLA IF YA HEAR ME
‘Here we go, turn it up, lets start. From block to block we snatchin hearts and jackin marks. And the punk police cant fade me, and maybe, we can have peace someday G.’
‘But right now I got my mind set up, lookin down the barrel of my nine, get up. Cause it’s time to make the payback fat, to my brothers on the block better stay strapped, black.’
‘And accept no substitutes, I bring truth to the youth, tear the roof of the whole school. Oh no I wont turn the other cheek, in case they cant see us while we burn the other week.’
‘Now we gotta hit em in a smash, blast. How long will it last til the po getting mo cash. Until then raise up, tell my young black males, blaze up. ‘
‘Life’s a mess, don’t stress, test. I’m givin but be thankful that you’re living blessed. Much love to my brothers in the pen. See ya when I free ya, not when they shove me in.’
‘Once again it’s an all out scrap. Keep your hands on your gat and now you boys watch your back. Cause in the allys out in Cali I’m a tell ya. Mess with the vest and the best couldn’t help ya.
SCREAM IF YOU FEEL ME, SEE IT CLEARLY?	YOU’RE TOO NEAR ME
HOLLA IF YA HEAR ME
‘Pump your fists like this, HOLLA IF YA HEAR ME, Pump Pump if you’re pissed. To the sellouts livin it up, one way or another you’ll be given it up. I guess cause I’m black born, I’m supposed to sing songs, and get capped on.’
‘But it’s time for a new plan, BAM!. I’ll be singing like a one man clan. Here we go, turn it up, don’t stop. To my homies on the block getting dropped by cops. I’m still around for ya, keeping my sound underground for ya.’
‘And I’ma throw a change up. Quale, like you never brought my name up. Now my homies in the backstreets, the blackstreets, they fell me when they rollin they rollin in they fat jeeps.’
‘This ain’t just a rap song, a black song, tellin all my brothers, get they strap on. And look for me in a struggle, hustlin till other brothers bubble’-
‘Will I quit, will I quit. They claim that I’m violent, but still I keep representin, never good up on a good thing. Wouldn’t stop it if we could it’s a hood thing.’
‘And know I’m like a major threat, cause I remind you of the things you were made to forget. Bring the noise to all my boize, know the real from the bustas and te decoys.’
‘And if ya hustle like a real G, pump ya fists if ya feel me, holla if ya hear me.’
‘Learn to survive in the nine tree, I make rhym pay, others make crime pay, whatever it takes to live and stand, cause no-body else will give a damn.’
‘So we live like caged beasts, waitin for the day to let the rage free. Still me, till they kill me. I love it when they fear me. Holla if ya hear me.’

3/8	LIMAHL – NEVER ENDING STORY
‘Turn around, look at what you see. In her face the mirror of your dreams. Make believe I’m everywhere. Given in the lines, written on the pages is the answer to a never ending story.”
‘Reach the stars, fly a fantasy. Dream a dream and what you see will be.’
‘Rhymes that keep their secrets, will unfold behind the clouds. And there upon the rainbow, Is the answer to a never ending story.’
‘Show no fear, for she may fade away. In your hands, the birth of a new day.’

4/8	TOOL – LATERALUS

????
(1) 	Black
(2) 	Then white
(3) 	Are all I
(5) 	See in my infancy. RED
(8) 	And Yellow then came to be, reaching out
(5) 	To me. Lets me See
(3)	As below, so
	?????????
(13)	Above and beyond I imagine. Drawn beyond the lines of reason. PUSH
(8)	The envelope. Watch it bend. Over thinking, Over
(5)	Analyzing seperates the body from
(3)	The mind withering

3/5 	2PAC - CHANGES
“I got love for my brother, but we can never go nowhere unless we share in each other. We gotta start making changes. Learn to see me as a brother ‘stead of 2 distance changes. And that’s how its supposed to be. How can the devil take a brother if he’s close to me? I’d love to go back to when we played as kids but things changed and that’s the way it is.”
“I see no changes. All I see is racist faces. Misplaced hate makes disgrace to races we under. I wonder what it takes to make this ONE better place…..lets erase the wasted. Take the evil out the people, they’ll be acting right. It takes skill to be real, time to heal each other.
“We got to make a change… Its time for us a people to start makin some changes. Lets change the way we eat, lets change the way we live and lets change the way we live and lets change the way we treat each other. You see the old way wasn’t working and so its on us to do what we gotta do to survive.’
5/8	U2 - DISCOTHEQUE
‘You can reach but you can’t grab it. You can hold it, control it, you can’t bag it. You can push, but you can’t direct it. Circulate, regulate, oh no you cannot connect it.’
‘You know you’re chewing bubblegum, you know what that is but you still want some. You just cant get enough of that lovey dovie stuff.’
‘You get confused, but you know it. Yeah you hurt for it, work for it, you don’t always show it.’
‘Looking for the one, but you know you’re somewhere else instead. You want to be the song, the song that you hear in your head. LOVE’
‘It’s not a trick.. you can’t learn it. It’s the way you don’t pay that’s okay ‘cause you can’t earn it.’
‘But you take what you can get, cause it’s all that you can find. Oh you know there’s something more but tonight, tonight, tonight.’
‘Take these hands, they’re good for nothing. You know they have never worked a day. Take these boots, they’re going nowhere. You know these boots, they don’t wont to stray. You’ve got my head filled up with songs. You got my shoelaces undone. Take my shirt, go take it off me. You can tear it up if you can tie me down.’
‘Take the colours of my imagination, take the scent hanging in the air. Take this tangle of a conversation and turn it into your own prayer. With my fingers as you want them, with my nails in your side, with my teeth at your back and my tongue to tell you the sweetest lies.’
‘Love’s a bully, pushing, shoving, in the belly of a woman. Heavy rhythm taking over to stick together. Man and a women stick together.’
‘It looks like the sun but it feels like the rain. And there’s heat in the sun, to see us through the rain.’
4/5	NAUGHTY BY NATURE – HIP HOP HOORAY
You drew a picture of my morning but you couldn’t make my day hey I’m rockin and your yawning but you never look my way hey I’m lickin down you darlin in every single way hey your funny flow is foreign and a green cards on the way this ain’t got shit to do with shampoo but watch your head and shoulders brother older bold enough to fold ya yo I told ya a raid afraid of what I made plus played a funky fit so save your flips plus tricks for that music plus the monkey bit triggas from the grilltown illtown some ask how it feels now how the deal is that we’re real so we’re still around don’t lamp wit a freestyle phantom ain’t trying to be handsome shrinkin what you thinkin cause im vampin you heard a lot about a brother gaining mo ground being low down I do the showdown wit any little ho round no! I wanna know who you’re believing through you’re funny reasons even when I’m sleeping you think I’m cheating you said I know you’re Mr. O.P.P man Yo PP man won’t only see  me man you should’ve known that when hit the stack I was wit it a bit and step not to consider the rep heck! I did your partner cause she’s hot as a baker not cause I hate cha you put you heart in a part of a part that spreads apart even though I forgave you when you had a spark you try to act like something really big is missin even though my names graffiti written on your kitten I love black women and disrecpect aint the way lets start a family today hip hop hooray ho hey heres a thunder sound from the wonders found from the underground town down the hill feel how illtown drown smiles to frowns snatchin crowns from clowns beat downs are found don’t know me don’t come around
SMOOTH IT OUT NOW.

6/8	EMINEM – DRUG BALLAD
5/5	DR. DRE – THE NEXT EPISODE
7/8	LED ZEPELLIN – STAIRWAY TO HEAVEN

8/8	BLISS N ESO (FEAT NAS) – I AM SOMEBODY
Come along children
Now where going to have a little music
Like old times
Straight out the gate
This is our STORY we’re SCRIPTING
Our film Our Glorious VISION
Our SOUND, Our Score that is WRITTEN
In this sport, this DIVISION
MY MY
How the tournaments RISEN.
Shit, EVERYBODY wants to soar in an instant.
EVERYBODY WANTS TO BE THE LORD OF THE RING WINS.
WE lay dormant and LISTENED
HIT IGNITION
Tore up the SYSTEM
ELEVATE^ACCELERATE^ and DEMONSTRATE^
LIVE
The DREAM and keep the horns to the MISSION
The formulas mixing
FIRE the engine UP and bring THE FORCE to the pistons.
Never SAY Never
Whenever together we give and go with the flow FLIPPING like J
Orden and Pippen.
SLAM THE POINTS HOME
INSIGHT A WAR TO IGNITE THE BOARD
Wipe the FLOOR with the NOTES that WE WRITE and
HOLD DOWN with a MIC to STRIKE a CHORD.
And then they can hear that thunder with the hooves, when WE COME with the
HUNGER of the WOLVES.
They were warned and the RED FLAG FLEW and his
CREWED CRACKED THROUGH
It’s the RUNNING of the BULLS
TODAY, WE ARE TOGETHER
WHENEVER WE COME TOGETHER
THE WRITERS WRITE
THE CAMERAS ROLL
BECAUSE TOGETHER WE GOT POWER
THAT’S JUST!
SUN,
RAIN, SNOW OR HAIL
WE NEVER GOT LOST IN THE STORM
AND YOU
BEST TO RESPECT THAT
YOU
NEVER REALLY KNOW
WHAT YOU GOT TIL IT’S GONE

LIFES ROUGHEST WEATHER
WE KNOW THE CODE WE STUCK TOGETHER
YEAH
AND
MY GOD
1 FEEL ALRIGHT
HEY
AND MY GOD 1 FEEL ALRIGHT
HEY
REAL GOOD

Triple J Hottest 100 of all time (1998)
The results of the first poll were counted down on SUNDAY.
5/3/1989
1.	Nirvana – Smells like teen spirit
‘ I’m worse at what I do best. And for this gift I feel blessed. Our little group has always been and always will until the end…….And I forget just why I taste. Oh yeah, I guess it makes me smile. I found it hard, it’s hard to find. Oh well, whatever, never mind’
2.	Hunters and collectors – Throw your arms around me
‘You will make me laugh and make me cry, And we will never forget it. You will make me call your name and Ill shout it to the blue summer sky

3.	Pearl jam – Alive
‘Son, she said, have I got a little story for you. What you thought was your daddy was nothing but a…’

4.	Jeff Buckley – Last goodbye
Well, the bells out in the church tower chime. Burning clues into this heart of mine. Thinking so hard on her soft eyes and the memories. Offer signs that its over….its over.’
5.	Radiohead – Creep
When you were here before. Couldn’t look you in the eye. You’re just like an angel. Your skin makes me cry. You float like a feather. In a beautiful world. I wish I was special. You’re so fucking special.

6.	Led Zeppellin – Stairway to Heaven
‘And it’s whispered that soon, if we all call the tune, then the piper will lead us to reason. And a new day will dawn for those who stand long, and the forests will echo with laughter.’
‘And as we wind on down the road our shadows taller than our soul. There’s a lady we all know who shines white light and wants to show, How everything still turns to gold. And if you listen very hard the tune will come to you at last. When all are one and one is all. To be a rock and not to roll.
‘Your stairway lies on the whispering wind?’

7.	Metallica – one
‘Now the world is gone im just ONE. Oh god, help me hold my breath as I wish for death. Oh please GOD help me.’

8.	Queen – Bohemian Rhapsody
‘Open your eyes, look up to the skies and see, im just a poor boy, I need no sympathy, Because I’m easy come, easy go, little high, little low. Anyway the wind blows doesn’t really matter to me, to me.

9.	Metallica – Enter Sandman
‘Say your prayers little one. Don’t forget my son to include everyone.’
‘Exit light, Enter night, Take my hand, off to never never land.’
‘Now I lay me down to sleep, Pray the lord  my soul to keep. If I die before I wake. Pray the lord my soul to take.’

10.	Pearl Jam – Black
‘Sheets of empty canvas, untouched sheets of clay. Were laid spread out before me as her body once did. All of five horizons revolved around her soul as the earth to the sun.  Now the air I tasted and breathed has taken a turn.’

Grammy Award winners – Best song
2014	Lorde – Royals
‘I’ve never seen a diamond in the flesh. I cut my teeth on wedding rings in the movies. And I’m not proud of my address. In a torn up town, no post code envy.’
‘My friends and I – We cracked the code. We count our dollars on the way to the party. And everybody who knows us knows that we’re fine with this. We didn’t come for money.’
2013	We are young – Fun
‘Give me a second, I need to get my story straight. My friends are in the bathroom getting higher than the empire state. ‘
‘Tonight We are young. So lets set the world on fire. We can burn brighter than the sun.’
2012	Rollin the deep – Adele
‘There’s a fire starting in my heart reaching fever pitch, its bringing me out the dark. Finally I can see you crystal clear.’
‘Baby, I have no story to be told but I’ve heard one on you. And I’m going to make your head burn. Think of me in your depths of despair. Make a home down there as mine sure wont be shared.’
2011	Need you now – Lady Antebellum
‘Picture perfect memories scattered all around the floor. Reaching for the phone cause I cant fight it anymore. And I wonder if I ever cross your mind? For me it happens all the time.’
2010	Single Ladies – Beyonce
‘Don’t treat me to these things of the world, Im not that kind of girl. Your love is what I prefer. What I deserve is a man that makes me then takes me and delivers me to a destiny, to infinity and beyond.’
2009	Viva la Vida – Coldplay
‘I hear Jerusalem bells are ringing, Roman cavalry choirs are singing. Be my mirror, my sword and shield, My missionaries in a foreign field.’
‘It was the wicked and wild wind blew down the doors to let me in. Shattered windows and the sound of drums, people could not believe what id become.’
‘Revolutionaries wait for my head on a silver plate. Just a puppet on a lonely string, oh who would ever want to be king.’
2008	Rehab – Amy Winehouse
‘They tried to make me go to rehab but I said no, no, no. Yes I’ve been black but when ill come back you’ll know, know, know.’
2007 Not ready to make nice – Dixie Chicks
‘Forgive, sounds good. Forget, I’m not sure I could. They say time heals everything but im still waiting.’
‘I’m through with doubt, theres nothing left for me to figure out. I’ve paid a price and Ill keep paying.’
2006 Sometimes you cant make it on your own – U2
‘Tough, you think you’ve got the stuff. You’re telling me and anyone you’re hard enough.’
‘Listen to me now. I need to let you know. You don’t have to go it alone.’
‘I know that we don’t talk I’m sick of it all. Can – you – hear – me – when – I – sing, You’re the reason I sing. You’re the reason the opera is in me.’
2005 Daughters – John Mayer
‘I know a girl, she puts the colour inside of my world. But she’s just like a maze where all of the walls continually change.’
‘On behalf of every man looking out for every girl. You are the god and the weight of her world.’
2004	Dance with my father – Luther Vandross
‘I know I’m praying for much too much but could you send back the only man she loved. I know you don’t do it usually but dear lord she’s dying. To dance with my father again. Every night I fall asleep and this is all I ever dream.’
‘Never dreamed that he would be gone from me. If I could steal one final glance, one final step, one final dance with him.’
2003	Don’t know why – Norah Jones
‘When I saw the break of day I wished that I could fly away. Instead of kneeling in the sand catching teardrops in my hand.’
‘Out across the endless sea, I would die in ecstacy. But ill be a bag of bones, driving down the road alone.’
2002	Fallin – Alicia Keys
‘Oh, Oh I never felt this way. How do you give me so much please but cause me so much pain. Just when I think I’ve taken more than would a fool. I start fallin back in love with you.’
‘Im fallin, in and out of love with you. I never loved someone the way that I love you.
2001	Beautiful day – U2
‘The heart is a bloom shoots up through the stony ground. Theres no room no space to rent in this town.’
‘You thought you’d found a friend to take you out of this place. Someone you could lend a hand in return for grace.’
‘Youre on the road but you’ve got no destination. Youre in the mud, in the maze of her imagination.’
2000	Smooth – Santana
‘Man, it’s a hot one. Like seven inchs from the midday sun. Well, I hear you whisper and the words melt everyone, but you stay so cool.’
‘And if you said ‘This life aint good enough’ I would give you my word to lift you up. I could change to better suit your mood.’
‘Well, Ill tell you one thing. It would be a crying shame in every breath and every word. I hear your name calling me out.’
1999	My heart will go on – Celine Dion
‘Everynight in my dreams I see you I feel you. That is how I know you go on.’
‘Near, far, Wherever you are. I believe that the heart does go on. Once more you open the door and youre here in my heart. And my heart will go on.’
‘Youre here, theres nothing I fear, and I know that my heart will go on. And I know that my heart will go on. We’ll stay forever this way. You are safe in my heart and my heart will go on and on.’
1998 	Sunny came home – Shown Calvin
‘She says “days go by, im hypnotized. I’m walking on a wire. I close my eyes and fly out of my mind into the fire.’
‘Oh, light the sky and hold on tight the world is burning down. She’s out there on her own and she’s all right. Sunny came home.’
1997	Change the world – Eric Clapton
‘If I could reach the stars, pull one down for you, shine it on my heart so you could see the truth.’
‘And I can change the world, I will be the sunlight in your universe. You think my love was really something good, Baby if I could change the world.’
1996	Kiss from a rose – Seal
‘There used to be a graying tower alone in the sea, you became the light on the dark side of me.’
‘But did you know, that when it snows, My eyes become large and the light that you shine can be seen.’
‘Now that your rose is in bloom, a light hits the gloom on the gray.’
1995	Streets of Philadelphia – Bruce springsteen
‘I walked the avenue, ‘til my legs felt like stone, I heard the voices of friends, vanished and gone, At night I could hear the blood in my veins. It was just as black and whispering as the rain, On the streets of Philadelphia.’
‘Ain’t no angel gonna greet me. It’s just you and I my friend. And my clothes don’t fit me no more, a thousand miles just to slip this skin.’
1994	A whole new world – Aladdin
‘I can open your eyes, Take you wonder by wonder. Over, sideways and under on a magic carpet ride.’
‘A whole new world, A new fantastic point of view. No one to tell us no or where to go or say we’re only dreaming.’
1993	Tears in Heaven – Eric Clapton
‘Would you know my name if I saw you heaven? Would it be the same if I saw you in heaven.’
‘Beyond the door, There’s peace I’m sure. And I know there’ll be no more, tears in hevean.’
‘I must be strong, And carry on, Cause I know I don’t belong here in hevean.’

1992	Unforgettable – Nat King Cole
‘Unforgettable, that’s what you are. Unforgettable Tho near or far.’
‘That’s why, darling, its incredible. That someone so unforgettable thinks that I’am unforgettable too.’
1991	From a distance – Bette Midler
‘From a distance, there is harmony, and it echoes through the land. It’s the voice of hope, it’s the voice of peace, it’s the voice of every man.’
‘From a distance we are instrunments marching in a common band. Playing songs of hope, playing songs of peace. They’re the songs of every man. God is watching us, God is watching us, God is watching us from a distance.
1990	Wind beneath my wings – Bette Midler
‘So I was the one with all the glory, while you were the one with all the strength. A beautiful face without a name for so long. A beautiful smile to hide the pain.’
‘It might of appeared to go unnoticed, but I’ve got it all here in my heart. I want you to know, I know the truth, of course I know it. I would be nothing without you.’
1989	Don’t worry be happy – Bobby Mcfinn
‘ Here’s a little song I wrote, you might want to sing it note for note. Don’t worry, Be happy. In every life we have some trouble. When you worry, you make it double. Don’t worry, Be happy.’
1988	Somewhere out there – James Ingram
‘Somewhere out there, some ones saying a prayer. That we’ll find one another, In that big somewhere out there.’
‘Somewhere out there if love can see us through, then we’ll be together. Somewhere out there. Out where dreams come true.’
1987	That’s what friends are for – Dianne warrick
1986	We are the world – Michael Jackson
‘There a certain times when we heed a certain call. When the world must come together as one. There are people dying and its time to lend a hand to life. The greatest gift of all.’
‘We cant go on pretending day by day. That someone, will soon make a change. We are all a part of gods great big family. And the truth, you know, Love is all you need.’
1985	What’s love got to do with it – Tina Turner
‘You must understand that the touch of your hand makes my pulse react. That it’s only the thrill of boy meets girl. Opposites attract.’
‘Oh whats love got to do with it, got to do with it. What’s love but a second hand emotion. What’s love got to do with it, got to do with it. Who needs a heart when a heart can be broken.’
1984	Sting – Every breath you take
‘Every move you make, every vow you break, every smile you fake, every claim you stake. I’ll be watching you.’
‘Since you’ve gone I’ve been lost without a trace. I dream at night I can only see your face. I look around and it’s you I can’t replace. I feel so cold and I long for your embrace. I keep crying baby, baby please.’

1)	The Signs of Nature — We are told to watch for earthquakes, famine, pestilence, and signs in the heavens

The Great Pyramid of Giza, the only one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still standing.