Yeah
Thank you, thank you, thank you, you're far too kind! (Whoo!)
Ah, uh, whoo, yeah! Ready?
Whoo, whoo, whoo!

(Can I get a encore, do you want more?)
Cookin' raw with the Brooklyn boy
So for one last time I need y'all to roar
Uh, uh, uh, uh (Yeah)
Now, what the hell are you waiting for?
After me, there shall be no more
So for one last time, nigga, make some noise

Get 'em Jay!

Who you know fresher than Hov'? Riddle me that!
The rest of y'all know where I'm lyrically at
Can't none of y'all mirror me back, yeah, hearin' me rap
Is like hearin' G. Rap in his prime, I'm
Young H.O., rap's grateful dead
'Bout to take over the globe, now break bread
I'm in Boeing jets, Global Express
Out the country but the blueberry still connect
On the low but the yacht got a triple deck
But when you young, what the fuck you expect? Yep, yep!
Grand openin', grand closin'
God damn, your man Hov' cracked the can open again
Who you gon' find doper than him
With no pen, just draw off inspira-tion-tion
Soon you gon' see you can't replace him-him
With cheap imitations for these generations

Encore, do you want more?
Cookin' raw with the Brooklyn boy
So for one last time I need y'all to roar
Uh, uh, uh, uh (Yeah)
Now, what the hell are you waiting for?
After me, there shall be no more
So for one last time, nigga, make some noise
What the hell are you waiting for?

Look what you made me do, look what I made for you
Knew if I paid my dues, how will they pay you?
When you first come in the game, they try to play you
Then you drop a couple of hits, look how they wave to you (Look how they wave to you)
From Marcy to Madison Square
To the only thing that matters in just a matter of years (Yeah)
As fate would have it, Jay's status appears
To be at an all-time high, perfect time to say goodbye
When I come back like Jordan
Wearin' the 45, it ain't to play games with you
It's to aim at you, probably maim you
If I owe you I'm blowin' you to smithereens
Cocksucker, take one for your team
And I need you to remember one thing (One thing)
I came, I saw, I conquered
From record sales, to sold-out concerts
So, motherfucker, if you want this encore
I need you to scream, 'til your lungs get sore (Come on)

I'm tired of being what you want me to be
Feeling so faithless, lost under the surface
Don't know what you're expecting of me
Put under the pressure of walking in your shoes
(Caught in the undertow, just caught in the undertow)
Every step that I take is another mistake to you
(Caught in the undertow, just caught in the undertow)
And every second I waste is more than I can take!

I've become so numb, I can't feel you there
Become so tired, so much more aware
I'm becoming this, all I want to do
Is be more like me and be less like you
I've become so numb

Can I get a encore? Do you want more? (More, more, more)
I've become so numb
So for one last time I need y'all to roar
One last time I need y'all to roar