Usher (Lil Jon, Ludacris!)
Yeah man, once again it's on (It's on)
You know we had to do it again right?
(We had to do it again boy!)
Uh-huh, uh, yeah
(I want you to sing to these ladies man)
Uh oh-oh-oh, I guess I'm up first, let me at 'em
Uh oh-oh-oh, check me out, let's get it

Baby, how you doing? Hope that you're fine
Want to know what you got in mind and I
Got me feenin' like Jodeci, girl I can't leave you alone
Take a shot of this here Patrón and it's gon' be on
V.I.P done got way too crowded
I'm about to end up calling it a night
She should holla at your girl, tell her that you're shaking the scene
Pulled off, beep beep, shotgun in the GT with me
She said, "Ohhhh! I'm ready to ride"
(I was like) Yeah
'Cause once you get inside, you can't change your mind
Don't mean to sound impatient but you gotta promise baby, oh!

Tell me again (Tell me again, my baby)
That we'll be lovers and friends (Oh, I gotta know baby, oh yeah)
Tell me again (Make sure you're right, oh before we begin)
That we'll be lovers and friends (Oh, oh it's a good look baby)
It's a really good look baby, look here

Sometime wanna be your lover, sometime wanna be your friend
Sometime wanna hug you
Hold hands, slow dance while the record spins
Opened up your heart
'Cause you said I made you feel so comfortable
Used to play back then now you all grown up like Rudy Huxtable
I could be your Bud, you could beat me up
Play fight in the dark then we both make up
I do, anything just to feel yo' butt
Why you, got me so messed up?
I don't know but you gotta stop tripping
Be a good girl, now turn around and get these whippings
You know you like it like that
You don't have to fight back, here's a pillow, bite that
And I'll be setting separate plays
So on all these separate days, your legs can go they separate ways

Tell me again (Tell me again my baby)
That we'll be lovers and friends (Oh, it's a good look baby)
Tell me again (Tell me over and over and over again)
That we'll be lovers and friends (Make sure you're right before you choose)

I's been knowing you for a long time (Shawty)
But fucking never crossed my mind (Shawty)
But tonight I seen something in you (Shawty)
That made me wanna get with you (Shawty)
You ain't been nothing but a friend to me (Shawty)
And a nigga never ever dreamed we'd be (Shawty)
Up in here kissing, hugging, squeezing, touching (Shawty)
Up in the bathtub rub-a-dubbing (Shawty)
Are you sure you wanna go this route (Shawty)
Let a nigga know before I pull it out (Shawty)
I would never ever cross the line (Shawty)
Shawty let me hear you tell me one more time
One more time

Tell me again (Tell me again my baby)
That we'll be lovers and friends (Oh, it's a good look baby)
Tell me again (Make sure you're right, oh before we leave)
That we'll be lovers and friends (Tell me over and over and over again)

Ah, ah-hooh, ah, ah-hooh
Ah, ah-hooh, aw yeah
Please tell your lovers and friends
That Ursher, Jon and Luda had to do it again (Hey!)
Uh, please tell your lovers and friends
That Ursher, Jon and Luda had to do it again (Hey!)
That's right, yeah, please tell your lovers and friends
That Ursher, Jon and Luda had to do it again (Hey!)