Give it up for Naughty By Nature!
Hip Hop Hooray
Ho, hey, ho, hey, ho, hey, ho

You drew a picture of my mornin'
But you couldn't make my day (Hey!)
I'm rockin' and you're yawnin'
But you never look my way (Hey!)
I'm lickin' down your darlin'
In every single way (Hey!)
Your funny flow is foreign
And a green card's on the way

This ain't got shit to do with shampoo
But watch your head and shoulder
Brother older, bold enough to fold ya, yo I told ya
A raid afraid of what I made and played it, plus a funky fit
So save yo' flips and tricks for that music and the monkey bit

Triggers from the Grilltown Illtown
Some ask how it feels now
The deal is that we're real, so we're still 'round
Don't lamp with a freestyle phantom
Ain't tryin' to be handsome
Shrinkin' what you're thinkin', 'cause I'm vampin'

I live and die for Hip Hop, this is Hip Hop for today
I give props to hip-hop, so Hip Hop hooray

Ho, hey, ho
Hey, ho, hey, ho
Hip Hop Hooray
Ho, hey, ho
Hey, ho, hey, ho

You heard a lot about a brother gainin' mo' ground
Bein' low down, I do the showdown with any little ho round
No! I wanna know who you believe in
Through your funny reasons
Even when I'm sleepin' you think I'm cheatin'
You said: "I know you, Mr. O.P.P. man
Yo, PP man, won't only see me man"
You should've known when I ain't hit it and step
That I was wit' it a bit, not to consider the rep, heck!
I did your partner 'cause she's hot as a baker
'Cause I'm Naughty by Nature, not 'cause I hate ya
You put your heart in a part of a part that spreads apart
And forgot that I forgave when you had a spark
You try to act like somethin' really big is missin'
Even though my name's graffiti-written on your kitten
I love black women always and disrespect ain't the way
Let's start a family today; Hip Hop Hooray

Ho, hey, ho
Hey, ho, hey, ho
Hip Hop Hooray
Ho, hey, ho
Hey, ho, hey, ho

Hip Hop, Hip Hip Hop, Hip Hip Hop, Hooray!
There's many hungry hip-hoppers
One reason Hip Hop's tip-top today
Swerve what you heard 'cause I ain't bailin' no hay
Ain't choppin' no crops, but still growin' every day

Here's a thunder sound from the wonders found
From the underground town down the hill
Feel how Illtown drown smiles to frowns
Snatchin' crowns from clowns, beatdowns are found
Don't know me? Don't come around!

Tippy tippy (pause) tippy tippy (pause)
Sometimes creepin' up I eat em up
Your styles are older than Lou Rawls
Peace to this one and that one and them
That way I shout-out and I didn't miss one friend
Fools get foolish, neither them or Parker Lewis knew us
You could have crews with shoes and can't step to us
Some kitties purr, now call me sir too
Lookin' for her crew; any trick that diss gets a curfew
I put on projects for boots
Step through troops and leave proof
My problem solver's name is Mook
I hittin' woodies in a hoodie
Peace to Josette, Jobete, Jo-Jo, Genae, and every hood G
That's right, my fight is ill
Peace goes to L.O.N.S. and Quest
Nice & Smooth and Cypress Hill
I live and die for Hip Hop, this is Hip Hop of today
I give props to Hip Hop, so Hip Hop Hooray

Ho, hey, ho
Hey, ho, hey, ho
Hip Hop Hooray
Ho, hey, ho
Hey, ho, hey, ho

Smooth it out now!