Show me a river that's so deep
Show me a mountain so high
I'll show you love that lasts forever
Flying high, so high
Ah, show me a world where dreams are for dreamers
And all the things you wish come true, yeah
I wish the world had all happy people
Then there'd be no more wishing to do
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, sweet love
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, sweet love
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oooh
Ooooooooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh
Sweet, sweet love
Sun shines over a rainbow
High on a hill
Take a ride on a magic carpet
And you'll know it's for real
The world is filled with all the lonely people
Trying to find their way
All they need is a hand
To guide them to a brighter day
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, sweet
(Sweet love.) Sweet love
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.   Well, well
(Sweet love.) Sweet love
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oooh
Oooh, hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo
Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, yeah.  Sweet love
Sweet love that comes through the ages
Reach out and touch my soul
Give my life so much meaning
And everyone a heart of gold
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, sweet love
Well, well, well
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oooh, oooh, oooh, sweet
(Sweet love.) Sweet, sweet love
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.  Sweet, sweet
(Oh.) Sweet, sweet love.  (Oooh.)
Oh, you needed love.  (Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,)
Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh.  (Sweet love.)
Sweet, sweet love
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, sweet love.  Well
I know you're searching
I know you're searching for that love
A little peace and understanding
And I know it's been hard trying to find your way
But you got to keep on searching harder day by day
'Cause I want you and you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, and you to stand on up, yes sir, and put a little love in your heart and a little heart in your love
Together we can make a way
Huh, listen to me
Don't ever wonder too hard, ah, of what I'm trying to say
'Cause it's love.  Love's the only way
(Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,) Oh, nothing but love.  Love
(Sweet love.) Sweet love.  Ow
(Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,) When you're down and out and you can't see your way
(Sweet love.) And you need a friend, well, ah, ah
(Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,) Just call on love, love, love
(Sweet love.) Sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet love